Configure TCP/IP.
I wanted to roll up as much as possible in a single slide.
This is a Visio drawing that I put together for you that
attempts to sum up the Transmission Control
Protocol/Internet Protocol suite in one slide.
Wow, that's a lot of work to do, isn't it?
I just realize that now.
TCP/IP, those are two separate protocols,
but there's a lot more than just those protocols in the TCP/IP stack.
TCP/IP is the de facto network protocol on the internet,
as well as on local area networks.
What we have in this slide are two network subnetworks,
or subnets,
where we have a hardware device called a switch connecting desktop
workstations in the left subnet and servers in the right-hand subnet.
And that's often a common motif that you'll organize your
network connections by their class, and then use a router,
that device you see in the center of the screen,
to separate the traffic and control traffic between the subnets.
So as far as specific IP configuration, we see pc1 has an IP address of 192.
168.
124 with, you might know, a 24-bit subnet mask, 255.
255.
0, and its default gateway is 192.
168.
11.
Pc2, notice that has an IP address in the same range, 192.
168.
1, but its unique host ID is 33.
It has the same default gateway,
so this means because those computers are on the same subnet,
they can communicate with each other transparently without the need of a router.
Now if we wanted to communicate with one of the servers on the right, 192.
168.
2.
10, as our DHCP server, for instance,
we're going to need to go out our default gateway,
and specifically,
a default gateway is a router interface that borders a local area network.
So this router needs at least two interfaces to be able to
segment this network and to forward traffic,
and it is aware of both sides of the equation,
that is it's on the.
1 subnet and the.
2 subnet.
On the server-side, it's the same song and dance.
This guy is 2.
10, and the dc1 domain controller is 2.
11.
Hopefully it makes sense that all PCs on a network
have to have unique IPv4 addresses, and this format that you see,
x.
y.
z.
a, is what's called an IPv4 address.
I'll have a tiny bit to say about Internet Protocol
version 6 at the conclusion of this module,
but we're concerned with IPv4 here.
The main takeaways to review is that each host in a
TCP/IP network needs an IP address, a subnet mask,
and preferably a default gateway.
That's not going to be optional if it's a routed internetwork.
The subnet mask is used by the host to determine what subnet it's on,
and it compares its subnet mask with the target IP address,
and that's what determines whether a local broadcast takes place,
such as if dc1 were to communicate with dhcp1,
or if a router default gateway address is required if dc1 needs to connect to,
say, pc2.
Now, you'll notice that this server here, I called it dhcp1.
You might be wondering, well,
how do you give your Windows 10 client computers unique IP addresses?
You can centrally manage these using the industry standard
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, or DHCP.
The other alternative, which you would do for servers,
switches, routers, network printers, is to either statically assign an address,
such that that machine always has the same address on that network interface,
or you can create a reservation in DHCP,
and that would also ensure that a particular host always
receives a specific configuration.
Some helpful TCP/IP utilities, all of these are command line,
ipconfig to view TCP/IP settings, ping to test connectivity,
tracert to work your way through one or more routers
to test longer connectivity paths,
hostname to verify the DNS name of a Windows 10 or a Windows Server machine,
whoami to see who is currently logged on to that machine,
and netsh, or Network Shell,
is a Swiss army knife tool that's been around in Windows so long,
I believe it even predates Windows and was originally made in MS-DOS.
Let me show you some Windows PowerShell briefly,
that we'll get into in more detail in the demo.
We have Get-NetIPConfiguration.
The syntax here, if you've used PowerShell at all, is pretty straightforward.
Get is used to retrieve information.
The Net prefix tells you, well, this is a network-oriented cmdlet,
and IPConfiguration should tell you that this is a
PowerShell analog to ipconfig, that's true.
But it doesn't tell the whole story.
Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending upon your outlook,
PowerShell, in this case, is a little bit,
in some cases, a lot more verbose than the old-school tools.
Like ipconfig/all is pretty easy to type,
and in order to get similar detail back you'll normally
have to run more than one cmdlet,
or at least have a long pipeline like you have here.
This call to Get-NetIPAddress is going to list all of the IP
addresses and the interfaces to which they're attached,
but that's quite a bit of typing, isn't it.
You can also do get-NetIPAddress to look for a particular protocol,
IPv4, if you're interested only in the IPv4 addresses,
or if you're looking at net adapters you can pass in particular
adapter types and then pull data from those.
How do you join an Active Directory domain?
Well, there's many interface ways to do it.
You can use the Settings app.
What I use myself is the System Control Panel.
There is the PowerShell Add-Computer cmdlet,
and what this does is creates an account for that computer in Active Directory.
You're going to need to be able to connect to a domain controller.
You don't need to know the host name of the domain controller,
you can just use any of these methods, specify the name of the domain.
You'll need two other things, though.
You'll need strong DNS connectivity so that your command,
whatever tool you're using, can resolve the name of the domain controller,
and actually determine that it is, in fact,
a domain controller.
That takes place through what's called the service location, or SRV, DNS record.
And the other thing you'll need, of course, is domain administrative privilege.
So in many cases, I daresay most cases in business,
you're going to want to automate domain joins such that
there's nothing that the user is required to do.
And the name of configuration management,
there's Windows PowerShell Desired State Configuration.
This is a way to establish policy for machines.
It goes beyond Windows.
I shouldn't say Windows PowerShell, I should just say PowerShell DSC.
There's first and third-party configuration management products,
like Microsoft's own System Center Configuration Manager,
that can automate a domain join.
And then, as we saw in the previous module,
we can interact in a hybrid cloud environment by registering, or maybe even joining a Windows 10 workstation to an Azure AD instance.